---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #43'
author: jsq
---

Remember [SE-0025](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0025-scoped-access-level.md)? That's the proposal that controversially introduced `fileprivate`. However, if you're regretting this change (like me), then you might have another chance to be heard! See the mailing list discussion in this issue for details.

<!--excerpt-->

### Starter tasks

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Commits and pull requests

Back in June, Austin Zheng [rewrote](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/3046) native hashed collection indices, refactoring `Dictionary` and `Set`. This week, Alexis Beingessner took over and [rebased](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/5291) the pull request and resolved conflicts. Despite some behavior differences and possible bridging performance regressions, it looks like the changes bring a lot of structural improvements to the code.

### Accepted proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

Ankur Patel’s proposal, [SE-0144](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0144-allow-single-dollar-sign-as-valid-identifier.md): *Allow Single Dollar Sign as a Valid Identifier*, is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2016-October/000291.html).

> The mainline Swift compiler emits an error message when the $ character (U+0024) is used as an identifier by itself, which is a source breaking change from Swift 3.0.

{% highlight swift %}
let $ = 10
// OR
let $ : (Int) -> (Int) = { $0 * $0 }
// OR
class $ {}
{% endhighlight %}

> This proposal suggests reverting this change, enabling the use of $ as a valid identifier in future versions of Swift (>= 3.1).

### Mailing lists

The other week, David Hart [started a discussion](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161003/027632.html) about `private` and `fileprivate` from [SE-0025](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0025-scoped-access-level.md): *Scoped Access Level*, asking if "this ship has sailed" or not. As expected, the email elicited many responses from the community. Like David and Russ, I agree that this proposal was a mistake &mdash; in practice using `fileprivate` feels cumbersome and too complex. I find extremely little value in `private`. In particular, these new access levels make type extensions more burdensome to implement since an `extension` cannot access `private` members.

From [David Hart](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161003/027647.html):

> [...] I instead want to share my experience using `private` and `fileprivate` since release. Here are my thoughts:
>
> We should start with the premise that the proposal has added a substantial amount of complexity:
>
> It has added an extra modifier and access level to learn.
> It has complicated the access level rules with Inner types as mentioned in the Complications with private types section of the proposal.
> I have seen many people (twitter, work, slack) be confused about the difference between `private` and `fileprivate` at the global level. The answer is none, which shows that both modifiers are not very orthogonal.
> Since release, I saw people prefer one over the other, as a matter of style. They tend to always use `fileprivate` or always using `private`. In the latter case, functions and properties get clumped in the same class scope instead of be written through multiple extensions.
>
> I have the impression that the motivations for the proposal are much less real in practice:
>
> The first motivation stated is: "It is not clear whether the implementation details are meant to be completely hidden or can be shared with some related code without the danger of misusing the APIs marked as `private`." I’ve found that to be fairly rare in practice because the implementation details only used to leak inside the same file, which greatly reduces the dangers.
> The second motivation stated is: "It forces a one class per file structure, which is very limiting." First of all, this is partly false. I think it forces putting classes which share implementation details in the same file, which I don’t think is necessarily a bad thing.
>
> To summarise, it seems that the confusion the proposal brought over semantics and style are not worth the limited benefits that it brought. I’d be tempted to backtrack the proposal and re-introduce `private` as a file scoped access-level and deprecate `fileprivate`.

[Russ Bishop](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161003/027659.html):

> I agree. The minor benefit that `fileprivate` brings is not worth the cognitive overhead it introduces. We should just admit it was a mistake and back it out. We can avoid source-breaking changes by making `fileprivate` a synonym for private and provide fixits/warnings for a release to give people a chance to move off it.

[Doug Gregor](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161010/027756.html):

> [...] This proposal has been litigated numerous times already, and the bar for source-breaking changes is much higher now. To effectively re-open the discussion would require a proposal that significantly changes the model with a lot of evidence that such a new model is a drastic improvement over what we have now. “Back out SE-0025” is not a viable option now.

[David Waite](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161010/027786.html):

> [...] I’m convinced as the Swift language and other Swift-based projects both gain more maturity, we will be able to get a holistic view of how access control should work and how it should correlate to project structure. Before then, any change may simply do more harm than good.

[Chris Lattner](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20161010/027912.html):

> Not speaking for the core team, just MHO:
>
> I agree with Russ here, and with others who have said upthread that the "thing that has changed" is that we are starting to get usage experience with `fileprivate` vs `private`. I think we all understand the value of having fewer access control levels, and so if "private" isn’t conceptually pulling its weight, then it is reasonable to consider phasing it out.
>
> That said, there is no specific rush to have this discussion, and I think it is reasonable to put a pretty high burden of proof on someone who wants to drive such a proposal. For example, if we had the discussion in the spring timeframe, we should have a pretty large body of Swift 3 code readily at hand (e.g. SwiftPM packages and other various github repos).
>
> Given that, it should be easy enough to see how widely private is actually being used in practice. If it is very rare, then the argument to ditch it (make it a synonym for `fileprivate`, and eventually phasing out `fileprivate`) is strong. If lots of people are using `private` and only some are using `fileprivate`, then the discussion is quite different.

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
