---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #37'
author: jsq
---

> TODO: comment

<!--excerpt-->

### Starter tasks

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Proposals in review

The following proposals definitely address some pain points in Swift 3 and it would be great to seem them accepted and implemented!

-------

Andrew Trick's proposal, [SE-0138](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0138-unsaferawbufferpointer.md): *UnsafeRawBufferPointer* is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2016-September/000275.html). This is a purely additive proposal to improve the Swift 3 migration experience.

> [SE-0107: UnsafeRawPointer](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0107-unsaferawpointer.md) formalized Swift's memory model with respect to strict aliasing and prevented arbitrary conversion between `UnsafePointer` types. When moving to Swift 3, users will need to migrate much of their code dealing with `UnsafePointer`s. The new `UnsafeRawPointer` makes that possible. It provides a legal means to operate on raw memory (independent of the type of values in memory), and it provides an API for binding memory to a type for subsequent normal typed access. However, migrating to these new APIs is not always straightforward. It has become customary to use `[UInt8]` in APIs that deal with a buffer of bytes and are agnostic to the type of values held by the buffer. However, converting between `UInt8` and the client's element type at every API transition is difficult to do safely.

Joe Groff's proposal, [SE-0139](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0139-bridge-nsnumber-and-nsvalue.md): *Bridge Numeric Types to `NSNumber` and Cocoa Structs to `NSValue`*, is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2016-September/000274.html).

> A handful of Swift numeric types are bridged to `NSNumber` when passed into Objective-C object contexts. We should extend this bridging behavior to all Swift numeric types. We should also bridge common Cocoa structs such as `NSRange` by boxing them into `NSValue` objects.

Another proposal by Joe Groff, [SE-0140](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0140-bridge-optional-to-nsnull.md): *Bridge `Optional` As Its Payload Or `NSNull`* is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2016-September/000281.html).

> `Optional`s can be used as values of `Any` type. After [SE-0116](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0116-id-as-any.md), this means you can pass an `Optional` to an Objective-C method expecting nonnull `id`.
> This is often a mistake, and we should raise a warning when it occurs, but is occasionally useful. When an `Optional` is intentionally passed into Objective-C as a nonnull object, we should bridge `some` value by bridging the wrapped value, and bridge `none`s to a singleton such as `NSNull`.

This would change this code:

{% highlight swift %}

let s1: String? = nil, s2: String? = "hello"
// works, should warn, currently produces an opaque object type
ObjCClass().imported(s1)
// works, should warn, currently produces an opaque object type
ObjCClass().imported(s2)

{% endhighlight %}

To the following:

{% highlight swift %}

let s1: String? = nil, s2: String? = "hello"
// proposed to bridge to NSNull.null
ObjCClass().imported(s1)
// proposed to bridge to NSString("hello")
ObjCClass().imported(s2)

{% endhighlight %}

### Mailing lists

> TODO

### Finally

And finally &mdash; 😂

> "Try to realize the truth, there is no compiler. Then you will see it is not the compiler that’s broken, it is only yourself."
>
> &mdash; [@NeoNacho](https://twitter.com/NeoNacho/status/773664214019964928)
