---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #67'
author: btb
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

Episode 7: [Archival Serialization & Swift Encoders](https://spec.fm/podcasts/swift-unwrapped/66634)

This week, JP Simard and Jesse Squires take a closer look at [SE-0166](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0166-swift-archival-serialization.md) and [SE-0167](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0167-swift-encoders.md) which seek to improve serialization and encoding in Swift.

### News and community

Apple [announced](https://swift.org/blog/swift-source-compatibility-test-suite/) a test suite for Swift source compatibility, where you can add *your* open source project to the test suite!

> The goal is to have a strong source compatibility test suite containing thousands of projects. We look forward to project owners helping to achieve this goal by including their open source Swift projects in the test suite.

### Commits and pull requests

Gelareh Taban posted [minutes](https://github.com/swift-server/work-group/pull/80) for the 5th Swift Server APIs Security Stream Meeting.

Joe Shajrawi [opened a pull request](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/8909) to reduce code size:

> Under `-Onone` we have 3X binary size reduction, under `-O` a 2X binary size reduction. The text area is reduced by around 80% and 60% respectively.

John Holdsworth, who co-authored [SE-0168](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0168-multi-line-string-literals.md): *Multi-Line String Literals* has opened [a pull request](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/8813) that implements these changes.

Aleksey Gaponov opened [a pull request](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/8718) to allow covariance in protocol conformance.

[Thanks to](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/8939) Ben Cohen, you will soon be able to say `T.Element == ...` instead of `T.Iterator.Element == ...` in your where clauses.

### Accepted proposals

[SE-0155](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0155-normalize-enum-case-representation.md): *Normalize Enum Case Representation* was [accepted with revisions](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20170417/035972.html).

> Feedback from the community was positive about most aspects of the proposal. However, there was substantial disagreement about the right direction for pattern matching. The core team discussed this issue in depth.
>
> Pattern matching is central to the use of enum types. It's the only way you can use an enum value, besides general operations like passing it to a function or the special affordances for `Optional`s. Pattern matching is as central to enums as stored property access is to structs, and it's fair to be worried about anything that would make it substantially more onerous. Unconditionally requiring associated-value labels in case patterns would certainly do that, and several members of the core team expressed concern that it would be bad enough to discourage the use of associated-value labels completely — in effect, subverting the entire language feature being proposed.
>
> It is true that including associated-value labels in case patterns does preserve a great deal of information in the source code:
>
> - This information can usefully contribute to the clarity of the code following the pattern.
>
> - Hiding this information can lead to bugs that would be self-evident if the case labels were always included. For example, if a case payload included a number of different boolean flags, it would be easy for a pattern to accidentally label them in the wrong order.
>
> - Finally, this information may be necessary in order to determine which case is being matched, since the proposal adds the ability to distinguish cases purely by the labels on associated values.
>
> However, the core team feels that there are counter-arguments which weaken the force of these considerations:
>
> - While an associated-value label can indeed contribute to the readability of the pattern, the programmer can also choose a meaningful name to bind to the associated value. This binding name can convey at least as much information as a label would.
>
> - The risk of mis-labelling an associated value grows as the number of associated values grows. However, very few cases carry a large number of associated values. As the amount of information which the case should carry grows, it becomes more and more interesting to encapsulate that information in its own struct — among other reasons, to avoid the need to revise every matching case-pattern in the program. Furthermore, when a case does carry a significant number of associated values, there is often a positional conventional between them that lowers the risk of re-ordering: for example, the conventional left-then-right ordering of a binary search tree. Therefore this risk is somewhat over-stated, and of course the programmer should remain free to include labels for cases where they feel the risk is significant.
>
> - It is likely that cases will continue to be predominantly distinguished by their base name alone. Methods are often distinguished by argument labels because the base name identifies an entire class of operation with many possible variants. In contrast, each case of an enum is a kind of data, and its name is conventionally more like the name of a property than the name of a method, and thus likely to be unique among all the cases. Even when cases are distinguished using only associated value labels, it simply means that the corresponding case-patterns must include those labels; we should not feel required to force that burden on all other case-patterns purely to achieve consistency with this presumably-unusual style.
>
> Accordingly, while it needs to be possible to include associated value labels in a case-pattern, and in some situations it may be wise to include them, the core team believes that requiring associated value labels would be unduly onerous. Therefore, the core teams revises the proposal as follows:
>
> A case pattern may omit labels for the associated values of a case if there is only one case with the same base name and arity. A pattern must omit all labels if it omits any of them; thus, a case pattern either exactly matches the full name of a case or has no labels at all. For example:

{% highlight swift %}
enum E {
  case often(first: Int, second: Int)
  case lots(first: Int, second: Int)
  case many(value: Int)
  case many(first: Int, second: Int)
  case many(alpha: Int, beta: Int)
  case sometimes(value: Int)
  case sometimes(Int)
}

switch e {
// Valid: the sequence of labels exactly matches a case name.
case .often(first: let a, second: let b):
  ...

// Valid: there is only one case with this base name.
case .lots(let a, let b):
  ...

// Valid: there is only one case with this base name and payload count.
case .many(let a):
  ...

// Invalid: there are multiple cases with this base name and payload count.
case .many(let a, let b):
  ...

// Valid: the sequence of labels exactly matches a case name.
case .many(first: let a, second: let b):
  ...

// Invalid: includes a label, but not on all of the labelled arguments.
case .same(alpha: let a, let b):
  ...

// Valid: the sequence of labels exactly matches a case name (that happens to not provide any labels).
case .sometimes(let x):
  ...

// Invalid: includes a label, but there is no matching case.
case .sometimes(badlabel: let x):
  ...
}
{% endhighlight %}

> This only affects case patterns. Constructing a case always requires that any associated value labels in the case name be provided.
>
> A case pattern must include patterns for all associated values of the case, even if the associated value has a default value. We may choose to relax this rule in a future release, or generally provide some sort of "..." syntax for indicating that there are associated values being ignored.
>
> The proposal includes a rule inferring labels in case patterns from binding names. The core team feels that imparting local variable names with this kind of significance would be unprecedented, surprising, and rather "pushy". The goal of this rule is also largely achieved by the new rule allowing labels to be omitted regardless of binding. Accordingly, this rule is struck from the proposal. That said, it would be a good idea for the implementation to warn when a binding name matches the label for a different associated value.

[SE-0165](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0165-dict.md): *Dictionary & Set Enhancements* was [accepted with revisions](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20170417/035955.html).

> The proposal is accepted with some revisions regarding naming:
>
> 1. The key/value sequence of init that does not take a closure resolving key conflicts will be named `init(uniqueKeysWithValues:)`. The core team felt that either possible implementation – a default way of coalescing keys, or `fatalError`-ing on conflicts – could be surprising to users in ways that could easily be missed in testing. A failable initializer would probably result in frequent force-unwrapping. Giving the initializer an argument label that clearly states the uniqueness requirement fulfills the goal of making sure the caller is aware of the requirement.
>
> 2. The initializer that takes a sequence of pairs and a closure for conflicts will be named `init(_:uniquingKeysWith:)`, and the two merge methods (mutating and non-mutating) named `merge(_:uniquingKeysWith:)` and `merging(_:uniquingKeysWith:)`.
>
> 3. The group-by method on `Sequence` will be made into an initializer on `Dictionary`: `init<S: Sequence, E>(grouping elements: S, by: (E) -> Key) where Value == [E], S.Iterator.Element == E`

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

> TODO

### Mailing lists

Jordan Rose [asked for input](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-dev/Week-of-Mon-20170417/004408.html) on how to handle renamed types when mixing and matching Swift 3 and Swift 4 code.

> Should we just always import C/ObjC types under their Swift 4 names, and use typealiases in Swift 3 mode?
>
> There are some downsides:
> - We currently keep people from using Swift 4 names in Swift 3 code, and we wouldn't be able to do that, since the actual declaration of the type always needs to be available.
> - We'd probably want to tweak the "aka" printing in diagnostics to not look through these typealiases. That's not hard, though.
> - We can't keep doing this once we have ABI stability. Hopefully framework owners aren't going to continue changing Swift names of types, but we'll probably need to implement my "C name in the mangling" plan anyway, just in case.

Ben Cohen [pitched](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution/Week-of-Mon-20170417/035986.html) another proposal to improve swapping values, by adding `swap` to `MutableCollection` and opened [a pull request](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/pull/692) for it on `swift-evolution`.

> As part of the introduction of the Law of Exclusivity, the current `swap(_:_:)` function must be addressed, as this most common uses of swap directly violate the law. This proposal introduces an alternative: a method on `MutableCollection` that takes two indices for swapping two elements in the same collection.

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
