---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #65'
author: jsq
sponsor:
    link: TODO
    heading: TODO
    body: TODO
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

> TODO: Latest episode of Swift Unwrapped

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

> TODO

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

[SE-0166](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0166-swift-archival-serialization.md): *Swift Archival & Serialization* by Itai Ferber, Michael LeHew, and Tony Parker is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-April/000346.html).

> Foundation's current archival and serialization APIs (`NSCoding`, `NSJSONSerialization`, `NSPropertyListSerialization`, etc.), while fitting for the dynamism of Objective-C, do not always map optimally into Swift. This document lays out the design of an updated API that improves the developer experience of performing archival and serialization in Swift.
>
> Specifically:
>
> * It aims to provide a solution for the archival of Swift `struct` and `enum` types
> * It aims to provide a more type-safe solution for serializing to external formats, such as JSON and plist
>
> The primary motivation for this proposal is the inclusion of native Swift `enum` and `struct` types in archival and serialization.

[SE-0167](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0167-swift-encoders.md): *Swift Encoders* by Itai Ferber, Michael LeHew, and Tony Parker is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-April/000345.html).

> As part of the proposal for a Swift archival and serialization API ([SE-0166](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0166-swift-archival-serialization.md)), we are also proposing new API for specific new encoders and decoders, as well as introducing support for new `Codable` types in `NSKeyedArchiver` and `NSKeyedUnarchiver`.
>
> This proposal composes the latter two stages laid out in [SE-0166](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0166-swift-archival-serialization.md).
>
> With the base API discussed in [SE-0166](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0166-swift-archival-serialization.md), we want to provide new encoders for consumers of this API, as well as provide a consistent story for bridging this new API with our existing `NSCoding` implementations. We would like to offer a base level of support that users can depend on, and set a pattern that third parties can follow in implementing and extending their own encoders.

[SE-0168](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0168-multi-line-string-literals.md): *Multi-Line String Literals* by John Holdsworth, Brent Royal-Gordon, and Tyler Cloutier is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-April/000347.html).

> This proposal introduces multi-line string literals to Swift source code. This has been discussed a few times on swift-evolution most recently putting forward a number of different syntaxes that could achieve this goal each of which has their own use case and constituency for discussion.
>
> Multi-line String literals are a common programming-language feature that is, to date, still missing in Swift. Whether generating XML/JSON messages or building usage messages in Swift scripts, providing string literals that extend over multiple lines offers a simple way to represent text without having to manually break lines using string concatenation. Concatenation is ungainly and may result in slow compilation.

### Mailing lists

> TODO

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
