---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #70'
author: jsq
sponsor:
    link: TODO
    heading: TODO
    body: TODO
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

> TODO: Latest episode of Swift Unwrapped

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

[SE-176](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0176-enforce-exclusive-access-to-memory.md): *Enforce Exclusive Access to Memory* was [accepted pending revision review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-May/000378.html).

> This proposal has been accepted with revisions. Feedback was strongly positive. Some participants raised concern about the overhead of dynamic checking. The core team shares this concern but feels that there will be adequate opportunities later to make pragmatic decisions about when to enable dynamic checking.
>
> Most of the proposal is accepted.  An implementation issue has been discovered with the use of dynamic enforcement on inout parameters.  The proposal implementors suggest adopting a stronger rule governing the use of non-escaping closures which will also allow Swift to make firm guarantees about the use of static enforcement when a variable does not escape.  The core team tentatively supports this new rule but believes it is a substantial enough revision that it requires a separate review period.

### Proposals in review

[SE-0163](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0163-string-revision-1.md): *String Revision: Collection Conformance, C Interop, Transcoding* by Ben Cohen and Dave Abrahams is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-May/000376.html).

> This proposal is to implement a subset of the changes from the [Swift 4
String
Manifesto](https://github.com/apple/swift/blob/master/docs/StringManifesto.md).
>
> Specifically:
>
> * Make `String` conform to `BidirectionalCollection`
> * Make `String` conform to `RangeReplaceableCollection` 
> * Create a `Substring` type for `String.SubSequence`
> * Create a `StringProtocol` protocol to allow for generic operations over both types.
> * Consolidate on a concise set of C interop methods.
> * Revise the transcoding infrastructure.
> * Sink Unicode-specific functionality into a `Unicode` namespace.
>
> Other existing aspects of `String` remain unchanged for the purposes of this 
proposal.

[SE-0178](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0178-character-unicode-view.md): *Add `unicodeScalars` property to `Character`* by Ben Cohen is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-May/000377.html).

> The `Character` element type of `String` is currently a black box that provides
little functionality besides comparison, literal construction, and to be used
as an argument to `String.init`.
>
> Many operations on `String` could be neatly/readably implemented as operations
on each character in the string, if `Character` exposed its scalars more
directly. Many useful things can be determined by examining the scalars in a
grapheme (for example is this an ASCII character?).

As mentioned above, [SE-176](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0176-enforce-exclusive-access-to-memory.md): *Enforce Exclusive Access to Memory* was accepted pending revisions. A [new review period](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-May/000379.html) for only the revisions has started:

> Most of this proposal was previously accepted.  An implementation issue has been discovered with the use of dynamic enforcement on inout parameters.  The proposal implementors suggest adopting a stronger rule governing the use of non-escaping closures which will also allow Swift to make firm guarantees about the use of static enforcement when a variable does not escape.  The core team tentatively supports this new rule but believes it is a substantial enough revision that it requires a separate review period.

### Mailing lists

> TODO

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
