---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #99'
author: jsq
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

[Episode 40: Dynamic Member Lookup Proposal](https://spec.fm/podcasts/swift-unwrapped). We discuss Chris Lattner's recent "Dynamic Member Lookup" proposal.

### News and community

It appears that the new Discourse-based [Swift forums are online](https://forums.swift.org), but not 100% functional yet.

https://forums.swift.org/t/discourse-rollout-re-schedule/7258

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

[SE-0187](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0187-introduce-filtermap.md): *Introduce `Sequence.compactMap(_:)`* was [accepted](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-December/000416.html).

> Hi, Swift community!  I apologize for the delay in reporting our decision here; between one holiday and the other, it took awhile for the core team to assemble a quorum to talk through this. [...] The result of the first review was consensus to rename the method, and the purpose of the second review was to get more specific feedback on what the new name should be.
>
> "filterMap" is a name with some precedent in other programming languages, especially functional ones, but some people felt strongly that the name was misleading because, as a combined operation, it wasn't quite a filter or a map.  Of the alternatives, the one with the strongest support seemed to be "compactMap", which builds on the precedent of "compact", an operation from other languages (notably Ruby) which returns a copy of the input without nil values.  Swift does not currently have such an operation, and in fact it is not currently possible to express it; nonetheless, the core team agrees that it would be a reasonable operation to add, and that "compactMap" is a good name for the operation.
>
> Therefore, SE-0187 is accepted, with the revision that the new name be `Sequence.compactMap(_:)`, and with the agreement that we will add `Sequence.compact()` when it is possible to do so.
>
> Thank you all for your continued contributions to making Swift a better language.

### Proposals in review

[SE-0192](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0192-non-exhaustive-enums.md): *Non-Exhaustive Enums* is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-December/000417.html).

> Currently, adding a new case to an enum is a source-breaking change, which is very inconvenient for library authors. This proposal aims to distinguish between enums that are _exhaustive_ (meaning they will never get any new cases) and those that are _non-exhaustive,_ and to ensure that clients handle any future cases when dealing with the latter. Some key notes:
>
> - This only affects `public` enums.
> - With rare exceptions, this does not affect `switch` statements in the same target as the enum.

This is definitely an exciting proposal for library authors! In Swift 5, public enums can be declared as `@exhaustive`, otherwise they default to non-exhaustive. The design and effects of such a seemingly small change are really interesting. I'd recommend reading the full proposal. It's also important to note that this proposal effects ABI stability:

> Currently, the layout of a public enum is known at compile time in both the defining library and in its clients. For a library concerned about binary compatibility, the layout of a non-exhaustive enum must not be exposed to clients, since the library may choose to add a new case that does not fit in that layout in its next release.

[SE-0193](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0193-cross-module-inlining-and-specialization.md): *Cross-module inlining and specialization* is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-December/000418.html).

> We propose introducing a pair of new attributes, `@inlinable` and `@abiPublic`. The `@inlinable` attribute exports the body of a function as part of a module's interface, making it available to the optimizer when referenced from other modules. The `@abiPublic` attribute marks an internal declaration as being part of the binary interface of a module, allowing it to be used from `@inlinable` code without exposing it as part of the module's source interface.

### Mailing lists

> TODO

### Finally

And finally &mdash; [great hires for functional programming roles](https://twitter.com/dazmuda/status/942889630738800640). 😄
