---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #66'
author: gregheo
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

> TODO: Latest episode of Swift Unwrapped

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

> TODO

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

[SE-0170](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0170-nsnumber_bridge.md): *NSNumber bridging and Numeric types* by Philippe Hausler is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-April/000351.html).

> `NSNumber` has been a strange duck in the Swift world especially when it has come to bridging and interacting with other protocols. An attempt was made to make a type preserving `NSNumber` subclass; however that defeated numerous optimizations in Foundation and also caused some rather unfortunate disparity between where and how the NSNumbers were created.
>
> Swift should have a consistent experience across all the SDK. No matter if you are using Objective-C in your app/framework in addition to Swift or not the behavior should be easily understood and consistent. Furthermore performance optimizations like tagged pointers or other fast-path accessors in Objective-C or CoreFoundation based code should just work no matter the context in which a `NSNumber` is created.

[SE-0171](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0171-reduce-with-inout.md): *Reduce with `inout`* by Chris Eidhof is [under review](https://lists.swift.org/pipermail/swift-evolution-announce/2017-April/000352.html).

> A new variant of `reduce` should be added to the standard library. Instead of taking a `combine` function that is of type `(A, Iterator.Element) -> A`, the full type and implementation of the added `reduce` will be:

{% highlight swift %}
extension Sequence {
    func reduce<A>(into initial: A, _ combine: (inout A, Iterator.Element) -> ()) -> A {
        var result = initial
        for element in self {
            combine(&result, element)
        }
        return result
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

### Mailing lists

> TODO

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
