---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #114'
author: btb
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

### Starter tasks

> TODO

{% include task_remind.html %}

### Swift Unwrapped

> TODO: Latest episode(s) of Swift Unwrapped

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

[SE-0215](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0215-conform-never-to-hashable-and-equatable.md): *Conform `Never` to `Equatable` and `Hashable`* was [accepted](https://forums.swift.org/t/se-0215-conform-never-to-equatable-and-hashable/13586/45).

> The Core Team discussed the review, and reached the following conclusions:
>
> - The proposal should be accepted with the new explicit conformances to `Equatable` and `Hashable` be added to `Never`. This addresses a real point of friction users are experiencing with the use of `Never`.
>
> - For the same reasons conformances to `Hashable` and `Equatable` are being added to `Never`, the Core Team felt that conformances to `Error` and `Comparable` should also be added to `Never` as part of accepting this proposal. Both of these additional protocol conformances were brought up during the review.
>
> - `Never` should become a blessed bottom type in the language. This matches with semantics in other languages and its intended role in Swift.
>
> With respect to the latter, the Core Team discussed what Never being a bottom type actually meant. From that discussion we reached the following conclusions:
>
> - Semantically, as a bottom type, it would mean that Never should be implicitly convertible to any other type. This composes well in the type system because of the fact that instances of `Never` cannot be instantiated.
>
> However, being a bottom type does not imply that `Never` should implicitly conform to all protocols. Instead, convenient protocol conformances for Never should be added as deemed useful or necessary.

[SE-0218](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0218-introduce-compact-map-values.md): *Introduce `compactMapValues` to Dictionary* was [accepted](https://forums.swift.org/t/accepted-se-0218-introduce-compactmapvalues-to-dictionary/14448).

> Feedback on the proposal was very positive – the main concern being with the name, but this falls naturally out of our existing method names so is consistent, if clunky.

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

[SE-0217](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0217-bangbang.md): *Introducing the `!!` "Unwrap or Die" operator to the Swift Standard Library* was [rejected](https://forums.swift.org/t/se-0217-the-unwrap-or-die-operator/14107/222).

> The core team has decided to reject this proposal as written. However, the core team concurs that the motivating problems posed by the proposal are important to solve, as did an overwhelming majority of commenters who participated in the public review. The fact that the only fixit the compiler offers to unwrap an Optional is to use the `!` operator is an unfortunate legacy of the Swift 1.0 days, before anything in the SDKs Swift was designed to work with had been audited for nullability, so force-unwrapping was far more of a necessity. Nowadays this legacy is actively harmful, and encourages bad habits in new Swift programmers, as the proposal and review discussion highlight extensively. It is clear too that `!` giving inadequate runtime feedback is a major problem, since a large contingent of the Swift community follows style guides that flat-out ban it, and the `guard ... else { fatalError("message") }` idiom is widespread as a way of more thoughtfully crashing on nil with an actionable error message.

I'd encourage you to read [the rest of the rationale](https://forums.swift.org/t/se-0217-the-unwrap-or-die-operator/14107/222).

### Proposals in review

> TODO

### Swift Forums

> TODO

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
