---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #126'
author: btb
sponsor:
    link: TODO
    heading: TODO
    body: TODO
    displaylink: TODO
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

### Swift Unwrapped

> TODO: Latest episode(s) of Swift Unwrapped

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

[SE-0239](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0239-codable-range.md): *Add `Codable` conformance to `Range` types* was [accepted](https://forums.swift.org/t/se-0239-add-codable-conformance-to-range-types/18794/50).

> Thank you everyone for the very insightful feedback provided during this review. It provided some great insights into the Swift's community uses and desires on Codable.
>
> Regarding the proposal itself, the Core Team has decided to accept it, with the proposal amended to include the details of the encoding format chosen. The data encoding chosen is an important semantic invariant of the API that is potentially observable by users and important for binary compatibility. Future proposals like this one that discuss adopting `Codable` should include details — and when necessary — rationale on the encoding chosen. Further, it would be valuable if the current chosen encodings for Standard Library types were also documented so that users using the default encodings for those types can either rely upon those encodings or know when they need to customize their encoding logic for a specific task.
>
> In addition, the Core Team decided to extend the proposal to include Codable conformance for ContiguousArray, which was similarly missing from the Standard Library. This felt like a case that required no additional review discussion.

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

> TODO

### Swift Forums

> TODO

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
