---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #145'
author: btb
sponsor:
    link: TODO
    heading: TODO
    body: TODO
    displaylink: TODO
---

> TODO: intro comments

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

> TODO

### Podcasts

> TODO: Latest episode(s) of Swift Unwrapped & the Swift Community Podcast

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/20420

> Finally merged a patch that I’ve been poking at since November. If you’re working on a build system and you’re implementing the “`-emit-module` first, then build” optimization, try adding `-Xfrontend -experimental-skip-non-inlinable-function-bodies`

### Accepted proposals

> TODO

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

[SE-0266](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0266-synthesized-comparable-for-enumerations.md): *Synthesized `Comparable` conformance for `enum` types* is [under review](https://forums.swift.org/t/se-0266-synthesized-comparable-conformance-for-enum-types/29457).

> [SE-185](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/master/proposals/0185-synthesize-equatable-hashable.md)
introduced synthesized, opt-in `Equatable` and `Hashable` conformances for
eligible types. Their sibling protocol `Comparable` was left out at the time,
since it was less obvious what types ought to be eligible for a synthesized
`Comparable` conformance and where a comparison order might be derived from.
This proposal seeks to allow users to opt-in to synthesized `Comparable`
conformances for `enum` types without raw values or associated values not
themselves conforming to `Comparable`, a class of types which I believe make
excellent candidates for this feature. The synthesized comparison order would be
based on the declaration order of the `enum` cases, and then the lexicographic
comparison order of the associated values for an `enum` case tie.

### Swift Forums

[Michael Ilseman](https://twitter.com/ilseman/) pitched [a proposal](https://forums.swift.org/t/prototype-protocol-powered-generic-trimming-searching-splitting/29415)
for protocol-powered generic trimming, searching, and splitting Collections.

> This prototype demonstrates two main protocols, `CollectionConsumer` and
`CollectionSearcher`, and a suite of API generic over them.
>
> Native regex literals will be built on top of generic functionality and used
with generic APIs. These can be broken down into 4 stages:
>
> 1. Consumers: nibbling off the front or back of a Collection
> 2. Searchers: finding a needle in a haystack (i.e. a Collection)
> 3. Validators: constructing types in the process of consuming/searching
> 4. [Destructuring Pattern Matching Syntax](https://gist.github.com/milseman/bb39ef7f170641ae52c13600a512782f#syntax-for-destructing-matching):
Like `~=`, but can bind a value
>
> Each stage delivers important API and syntax improvements to users alongside
powerful extension points for libraries. Native regex literals would conform to
these protocols and leverage new syntax, allowing them to be used by the same
generic APIs.
>
> This prototype covers stages 1 and 2.

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
