---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #150'
author: btb
sponsor:
    link: TODO
    heading: TODO
    body: TODO
    displaylink: TODO
---

150!!!

<!--excerpt-->

{% include sponsor.html %}

### Starter tasks

- [SR-11892](https://bugs.swift.org/browse/SR-11892) [Compiler] Suggest
inheriting `NSObject` instead of providing stubs for `NSObjectProtocol`
- [SR-11900](https://bugs.swift.org/browse/SR-11900) [Compiler] `swift help`
doesn't work
- [SR-11902](https://bugs.swift.org/browse/SR-11902) [Compiler] Improve Error
Message for Auto-synthesized `Equatable` Conformance on Classes

### Podcasts

> TODO: Latest episode(s) of Swift Unwrapped & the Swift Community Podcast

### News and community

> TODO

### Commits and pull requests

> TODO

### Accepted proposals

> TODO

### Returned proposals

> TODO

### Rejected proposals

> TODO

### Proposals in review

> TODO

### Swift Forums

[Matthew Johnson](https://twitter.com/anandabits) pitched [a proposal](https://forums.swift.org/t/anonymous-structs/31424)
to introduce anonymous structs.

> This proposal introduces anonymous structs using closure-inspired syntactic
sugar as an alternative to a more verbose local struct declaration. As with
closures, trailing syntax is supported.
>
> While Swift has often been called a protocol-oriented language it still lacks
some features necessary to facilitate protocol-oriented library designs in
practice. One missing feature is syntactic support for ad-hoc, single-use
conformances on par with the expressivity that closures provide for ad-hoc,
single-use functions.
>
> Local type declarations involve a lot of syntactic ceremony that is
unnecessary for singe-use types. This ceremony includes a name, explicit
protocol conformance declarations, and fully written declarations for all
members. In addition to the ceremony of the local type declaration itself, use
of the type requires explicit instantiation, which may itself be verbose if
there are several stored properties to initialize.

### Finally

> TODO: something funny/fun. tweet, link, etc.
